design/WorkingDoc.md, before:

# Java Based Traffic Simulator
## Program Working Document

### Specification
The client needs a way to be able to simulate traffic in city areas; needing to simulate different vehicle types 
behaviour with traffic lights, roads and intersections. The program will be console based for this iteration, and will 
be used in the console. Taking inputs from the user and displaying the status of objects within the simulation to the 
user. This version of the program will be able to simulate a single car moving along a single lane road, interact with 
a traffic light, move to a second road connected to the first, representing a very basic intersection, and move to the 
end of that road.

### Decomposition
The problem can be broken into operate objects that interact with each other to achieve the desired behaviour. 
These objects include;
#### Car
The car class will be an object that describes an average size road vehicle. Holding the following attributes; 
- *id* – a unique identifier that will differentiate each car.
- *Length* – the physical space the car occupies longways.
- *Breadth* – the physical space the car occupies widthways, half the cars length.
- *Speed* – how far the car moves for each simulation turn.
- *Position* – where the car is located on a road.
-	*Current Road* – the road the car is currently traveling on.

The car will be able to move, using the move() method, within the simulation along a road depending on its speed, the speed will be defined by the speed limit of the road the car is traveling on. When the car is in the same position as a traffic light it will check its state before moving, if the light is red it will stop, if the light is green it will move to the next road. When the cars position is equal to the end of a road and there is no connected road it will stop ending the simulation.

##### Bus
The bus class will be a subclass of car, describing a large road vehicle. It will inherit its attributes and behaviour from                 Car except its length will be defined as being three times that of the car’s length. 

##### Motorbike
The motorbike class will be a subclass of car, describing a small road vehicle. It will inherit its attributes from and behaviour Car except its length will be defined as being half that of the car’s length.

#### Road
The road class will be an object that describes a single lane road. Holding the following attributes;
- *id* - a unique identifier that will differentiate each road
- *Speed limit* – the maximum speed that cars on that road may travel at.
-	*Length* – the number of segments the road is comprised of and the physical space it occupies.
-	*Start location* – the (x,y) coordinate that represents where the road begins.
-	*End location* – the (x,y) coordinate that represents where the road ends.
-	*Connected roads* – all of the roads that this road is physically connected to.
-	*Lights on the road* – all the traffic lights that are on the ends this road.
-	*Cars on the road* – all of the cars that are currently traveling on this road.

The for the first version of the program the speed will be constant and set to 1. Meaning the car will only be able to move a single position each turn making it easier deal with traffic lights and the ends of roads. The length of the road will be variable depending of user input. Roads will interreact with other roads by being connected to them, creating a very basic intersection with only one option for the car to take. Cars will move along the road from the starting position (1) to the end position, that depends on the road’s length. Traffic lights can be placed at only the end position of the road.

#### Traffic Light
The traffic light class will represent a simple red or green traffic light. Holding the following attributes;
- *id* - a unique identifier that will differentiate each traffic light.
- *State* - the colour the ligth is displaying.
- *Position* - where the traffic light is located on the road.
- *Road attached to* - the road that the light is attached to.

The traffic light will operate, using the opperate() method. Randomly changing from green to red. This opperation will be based on pseudo-random numbers generated by the program. The light will be placed on a road only at its final position, the end of the road, and will interact with cars that are also at that position. If the light is red the cars will stop and not move to the next road. If the light is green the cars will continue past and move to the next road.

### Main
This class will have the main() method that will contain the simulation loop.
All the objects needed for the simulation will be created here; creating roads, a car and a traffic light. Locations for roads and thier connection will also be set here. For this version of the program the user will only have conrol over the lenght of the road and the speed the simulation runs at. The simulation will run, moving the car and operating traffic lights, untill the car can no longer move and has come to a stop.

Commit message:

Add basic code for a simulation window.

design/WorkingDoc.md, after:

# Java Based Traffic Simulator
## Program Working Document

### Specification
The client needs a way to be able to simulate traffic in city areas; needing to simulate different vehicle types 
behaviour with traffic lights, roads and intersections. The program will be console based for this iteration, and will 
be used in the console. Taking inputs from the user and displaying the status of objects within the simulation to the 
user. This version of the program will be able to simulate a single car moving along a single lane road, interact with 
a traffic light, move to a second road connected to the first, representing a very basic intersection, and move to the 
end of that road.

### Decomposition
The problem can be broken into operate objects that interact with each other to achieve the desired behaviour. 
These objects include;
#### Car
The car class will be an object that describes an average size road vehicle. Holding the following attributes; 
- *id* – a unique identifier that will differentiate each car.
- *Length* – the physical space the car occupies longways.
- *Breadth* – the physical space the car occupies widthways, half the cars length.
- *Speed* – how far the car moves for each simulation turn.
- *Position* – where the car is located on a road.
-	*Current Road* – the road the car is currently traveling on.

The car will be able to move, using the move() method, within the simulation along a road depending on its speed, the speed will be defined by the speed limit of the road the car is traveling on. When the car is in the same position as a traffic light it will check its state before moving, if the light is red it will stop, if the light is green it will move to the next road. When the cars position is equal to the end of a road and there is no connected road it will stop ending the simulation.

##### Bus
The bus class will be a subclass of car, describing a large road vehicle. It will inherit its attributes and behaviour from                 Car except its length will be defined as being three times that of the car’s length. 

##### Motorbike
The motorbike class will be a subclass of car, describing a small road vehicle. It will inherit its attributes from and behaviour Car except its length will be defined as being half that of the car’s length.

#### Road
The road class will be an object that describes a single lane road. Holding the following attributes;
- *id* - a unique identifier that will differentiate each road
- *Speed limit* – the maximum speed that cars on that road may travel at.
-	*Length* – the number of segments the road is comprised of and the physical space it occupies.
-	*Start location* – the (x,y) coordinate that represents where the road begins.
-	*End location* – the (x,y) coordinate that represents where the road ends.
-	*Connected roads* – all of the roads that this road is physically connected to.
-	*Lights on the road* – all the traffic lights that are on the ends this road.
-	*Cars on the road* – all of the cars that are currently traveling on this road.

The for the first version of the program the speed will be constant and set to 1. Meaning the car will only be able to move a single position each turn making it easier deal with traffic lights and the ends of roads. The length of the road will be variable depending of user input. Roads will interreact with other roads by being connected to them, creating a very basic intersection with only one option for the car to take. Cars will move along the road from the starting position (1) to the end position, that depends on the road’s length. Traffic lights can be placed at only the end position of the road.

#### Traffic Light
The traffic light class will represent a simple red or green traffic light. Holding the following attributes;
- *id* - a unique identifier that will differentiate each traffic light.
- *State* - the colour the ligth is displaying.
- *Position* - where the traffic light is located on the road.
- *Road attached to* - the road that the light is attached to.

The traffic light will operate, using the opperate() method. Randomly changing from green to red. This opperation will be based on pseudo-random numbers generated by the program. The light will be placed on a road only at its final position, the end of the road, and will interact with cars that are also at that position. If the light is red the cars will stop and not move to the next road. If the light is green the cars will continue past and move to the next road.

###SimulationWindow
This will generate the graphical display of the simulation.

### Main
This class will have the main() method that will contain the simulation loop.
All the objects needed for the simulation will be created here; creating roads, a car and a traffic light. Locations for roads and thier connection will also be set here. For this version of the program the user will only have conrol over the lenght of the road and the speed the simulation runs at. The simulation will run, moving the car and operating traffic lights, untill the car can no longer move and has come to a stop.
